well howdy there internet people its Bo
again so uh we're going to talk about
the constitutionality of impeachment
because a lot of people are running
around saying that what's being done is
unconstitutional to include the
president but as we have learned before
just because he tweets something doesn't
mean it's true even though a lot of
other elected officials who have sworn
an oath to support and defend the
Constitution are running around saying
the same thing just proving they never
read the document they sworn oath to
support and defend but anyway we will
cover everything that the Constitution
says about impeachment it's not really
that much okay people are saying that
the process is unconstitutional that's
patently false just plainly on its face
it's false the impeachment process is
the indictment phase okay what the house
is doing that's the indictment phase and
what the Constitution has to say about
that
is in article one section two it says
that the house shall appoint its
officers you know the Speaker of the
House and whatever and then they have
sole power over impeachment so to be
clear if they wanted to do the entire
thing in secret not even inform the
president that it was happening and do a
surprise vote that's completely
constitutional if they decided that
their procedures require a witness to
wear a Mickey Mouse hat and saying it's
a small world first that's
constitutional the house has sole power
over impeachment proceedings if they
render a verdict to impeach then it goes
over to the Senate to convict they hold
the impeachment trial that's article one
section three the Senate has sole power
over impeachment trials now the Senate
there are a few rules for them not many
though they have to be under oath or
affirmation if they're impeaching the
president the Chief Justice has to
purrs I'd and they need a two-thirds
majority to convict those are the rules
now they have roles as far as punishment
as well judgment is limited to removal
from office and disqualification of
holding future office that's it that's
as far as the Senate can go during an
impeachment trial that's that now it
does say that the person convicted is
still liable to indictment trial
judgment and punishment in a criminal
prosecution but that's not the Senate
the Senate is not going to send the
president to prison that may happen
afterward okay
article 2 section 2 discusses the
president's right to pardoned people and
he can't pardoned in cases of
impeachment
so that cute little mean president gets
impeached removed pence pardons and it's
not gonna work that way
article 2 section 4 that's the part that
says high crimes and misdemeanors now
that actually says is that the president
shall be removed for these types of
charges shall be is legalese must be
removed the House and Senate can impeach
and convict for pretty much anything
they want
but for these things the punishment has
to include removal article 3 section 2
trial of all crimes except impeachment
has to be done by jury so this goes
along with the rules for the Senate
about the limitations on punishment and
then clarifying that the person could be
tried later what it's doing is it's
separating and it's saying that an
impeachment trial is not a criminal
prosecution
it's not the same thing so it's getting
rid of the idea of double jeopardy and
stuff
that okay so that's it the main document
the Constitution that's all it says
about impeachment those are the rules
none of those are being violated not
there's nothing unconstitutional about
the proceedings right now now we have a
couple other things they get thrown up
that sound constitutional they have to
do with the Bill of Rights and says that
the president is being denied due
process well first we're still in the
impeachment phase they don't even have
to tell them it's happening there's no
requirement for due process here more
importantly that comes from the Fifth
Amendment no person shall be deprived
life liberty or property without due
process what is the max punishment
removal from office and disqualification
his life liberty and property are not in
jeopardy
it doesn't even apply the president has
a right to confront his accusers that's
the sixth amendment that amendment
starts with the phrase in all criminal
prosecutions as outlined in article one
section three this is not a criminal
prosecution now he may get to confront
his accusers that may happen but it's
going to be after the Senate convicts
and then he's indicted and during the
trial a criminal trial he would be able
to do that that's it there is nothing
unconstitutional occurring it's not a
coup it's the way the process is laid
out anybody who says that it's a coup
anybody who says that it's
unconstitutional all they're doing is
proving they've never read the
Constitution if you want to argue about
the Constitution you have to actually
read it
so anyway it's just a thought y'all have
a good night